---
layout: post
title: "Security On-Premises vs Security in Cloud"
date: 2023-04-22 10:00:00 +0800
categories: [Azure, Cloud Computing]
tags: [Azure, Cloud Computing, Security, thoughts]
excerpt: "Security On-Premises vs Security in Cloud"
image: "/assets/images/onion.png"
---

# Security On-Premises vs Security in Cloud

Before we begin, I would like to travel back in time to the days of Windows Server NT4. Back then there was no support for Role Based Access Controls (RBAC), Delegated Access or Conditional Access to Domain based resources. As such many organisation adopted the approach of granting all Administrator Staff access to the Domain Admins security group. 

This was a simple, effective and dangerous approach, increasing the attack surface area of critical Domain infrastructure through excessive membership of a highly privileged group.

Fast forward to the initial glory days when Windows Server 2000 was launched. With this major overhaul to the Service Platform infrastructure we gained the ability to segregate our domain based resources into Organisation Units (OUs). Active Directory improvements paved the way for more granular Delegated Access security models and allowed organisations to separate roles into security zones. For example, HelpDesk staff could be granted rights to reset user passwords within a single OU as well as update user data metadata such as Surname. As organisations migrated to Server 2000 and shifted DC functionality to 2000 (as well as Forest and Domain functional levels) we saw a drop in the number of Administrative staff granted access to the Domain Admins group.

2003 Server provided even greater granularity in permission delegation and opened the door to Group Policy Objects (GPOs) with this we were able to set permissions at the Service level on Domain based infrastructure, this removed certain requirements for service accounts to be a local admin member on servers to run services.

Moving forward to Server 2016 and we have seen further improvements to Active Directory and delegated security, but I am going to stop there…

You see, during this transition period between NT4 and 2003 days our security policies evolved (or were created in certain circumstances) procedures were put in place to separate out access to infrastructure and the Onion was born.

The Onion is a common concept in IT with Defence in Depth methodology providing security in the form of layers. Each layer of the Onion represents a security control put in place to prevent a single event affecting the whole. An attacker must breach each layer to get to the core and a layer could represent physical\logical access control methods.

The Onion has been around for a while now and the only thing that has changed, is the size of the Onion, each new wave of technological advancement has added a new series of layers to the Onion, increasing the depth of defence.

Now we enter what I call the Apple phase. This is in no way a mention or call out to a popular consumer product manufacturer, but a new analogy on a paradigm shift that I am witnessing in the IT infrastructure landscape.

What is happening at the core is that many organisations have somehow left the Onion concept behind when deploying Cloud based resources. We have somehow shifted back to the NT4 days where every Administrative staff member is now a member of the Azure AD “Global Admins” group. This is significant since the GA group has a far greater reach and impact than the DA group. For a breach to occur on a DA enabled account in a non-cloud world, the attacker would need some form of network access to a Domain Controller (Onion Layer) and then the credentials of the individual. 

Within Azure, if the GA member account is compromised then that layer is missing. The attacker can connect into the Azure Portal and do really bad stuff. (Picture a massive automated VM deployment using the largest NV series VMs with a pre-configured BitCoin mining client.) See cost is now a factor in the security modelling, as unauthorised access to a subscription can have far greater impact than loss or leakage of information.

